# Coaxial-Yarn

D. Egeli, M. Seçkin, A. Ç. Seçkin and E. Oner, "Woven Fabric Produced from Coaxial Yarn for Touch Sensing and Optimization," in IEEE Sensors Journal, doi: 10.1109/JSEN.2022.3143904.
Abstract: In this paper, a capacitor type smart sensor fabric with conductive coaxial yarns is presented. Fabrics woven from specially prepared coaxial yarns were used as the sensing surface. When a person touches this fabric surface, the contact area should be as large as possible to achieve greater capacitive interaction. In order to investigate this interaction and optimize sensor performance, different fabric combinations were tried in the study. Using three different weaving types and three different tightness level parameters, 81 fabric pairs were created. According to the results of the study, the most suitable fabric combination was determined in terms of both sensory and comfort, and it was decided to use satin-shrill fabric on the upper floor and flat-treble fabric on the lower floor. The conductive coaxial yarns used are covered with an insulator to protect them against corrosion and short circuit. It has been observed that the designed system works better at low temperature and high humidity, as well as its sensitivity increases as the number of washes increases. The designed system can be used for products as it is made of woven fabric, comfortable, short circuit and corrosion resistant, portable and cost effective.
URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9684417&isnumber=4427201
